# CSM 3060: Software Engineering Methods

## Class Meetings:


## Required Textbook:
Design Patterns: Elements of Reusable Object-Oriented Software, Erich Gamma

## Other recommended supplemental textbooks:
The Pragmatic Programmer, Andrew Hunt and David Thomas

## Catalog Description:
Lorem ipsum

## Prerequisites:
C or better in CSM 3870 (Data Structures)

## Learning Objectives:
Upon completion, students will be able to:
- Identify industry “best practices” for writing production code
-	Understand foundations of software engineering such as scalability
-	Demonstrate skills with industry standard tooling, such as code editors, version control systems, and server technologies

## Topics to be covered:
- Software Engineering Tools
  - Text editors and Integrated Development Environments
  - Linux and Command Line Interfaces
  - Programming Languages
- Modern Software Infrastructure
  - Production Management Tools (e.g., CICD)
  - Development Management Tools (e.g., Docker, K8S)
  - Cloud Platforms (e.g., AWS)
- Project Management
  - Release management and source control
  - Teamwork and leadership
- Testing and Evaluation
  -	Testing tools and methodologies
  - Code reviewing
- Software Development Life Cycles
  - Life Cycle Models
  - Software Engineering Roles
- Design Patterns
-	APIs

## Tentative Course Schedule:
| Weeks | Topics | Readings |
| - | - | - |
| 1 | Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet | the quick brown fox jumps over the lazy dog |

## Evaluation:

# Course Grade:
The following scale will be used as a first approximation to your grade:

| A | B | C | D | F |
| - | - | - | - | - |
| 100 - 90 | 89 - 80 | 79 - 70 | 69 - 55 | 54 - 0 |

In borderline cases, factors such as overall trends and the final exam score will be taken into consideration. It is possible that the “cut-off” scores given above will be lowered. As a result, an overall score of 80 is guaranteed to receive at least a B, whereas a score of 78 might result in a B. Additionally, relative grading (curving) may be applied based on class performance.

## D2L (Desire2Learn):
I will use the Desire2Learn (D2L) course page to post course materials (such as the course outline, lectures, and handouts), information about homework assignments, and announcements about deadlines and exam dates.
I will also use D2L to post grades, so you can track your progress in the course.

## Make-up Policy:
I will be happy to provide make-up privileges (when make-up is possible) for properly verified absences due to illness, emergency, or participation in an official University activity.
It is the student’s responsibility to initiate plans for make-up work and to complete it promptly.
Whenever possible, students should contact me before such absences rather than after.

## Academic Integrity:
Students are expected to maintain principles of academic integrity and conduct as defined in EIU’s Code of Conduct (http://www.eiu.edu/judicial/studentconductcode.php).
Violations will be reported to the Office of Student Standards.
The Department of Mathematics and Computer Science considers academic dishonesty to be a voluntary act for which there is no acceptable excuse (https://www.eiu.edu/math/honesty.php).

## ChatGPT or other AI Tools:
Students are not allowed to use ChatGPT or other AI tools to complete homework assignments or final projects.
For example, students cannot submit code generated by AI tools.

## Plagiarism Detection and Monitoring Tool:
To encourage original and authentic written work, students may be required to submit their written assignments in this course for review to Turnitin.com, or other systems designed to detect plagiarized material, and those assignments will become a searchable document within the Turnitin (or other system’s) database.

## Students with disabilities:
If you are a student with a documented disability in need of accommodations to fully participate in this class, please contact the Office of Student Disability Services (OSDS).
All accommodations must be approved through OSDS.
Please stop by McAfee Gym, Room 1210, or call 217-581-6583 to make an appointment.

## The Student Success Center:
Students who are having difficulty achieving their academic goals are encouraged to contact the Student Success Center (www.eiu.edu/~success) for assistance with time management, test taking, note taking, avoiding procrastination, setting goals, and other skills to support academic achievement.
The Student Success Center provides individualized consultations.
To make an appointment, call 217-581-6696, or go to McAfee Gym, Room 1301.

## Technical Support:
For assistance with any of the following issues, contact Campus Technology Support at Student Services Building – 3040, call 217-581-4357, or email: support@eiu.edu.
- Retrieving/verifying your EIU Net-ID (username)
-	Retrieving/verifying or resetting your EIU Net Password
-	Logging into PAWS (Panther Access to Web Services)
-	Remote Desktop usage at EIU
-	EIU Wi-Fi
-	Connecting to the EIU Network

## Instructor Response Time:
I routinely check the course for postings or emails between 8AM to 5PM on Monday through Friday.
You can expect a response from me within 24 hours during this time.
I will try to respond to all weekend (Friday evening to Sunday) emails and postings by Monday or earlier.

## Early Alert System:
Eastern has an Early Alert System (EAS) in place to help students identify when they are not performing up to academic standards.
Alerts may be given for poor attendance, not turning in work on time, or poor performance on assignments or tests.
EAS staff will contact you to provide resources to help you succeed academically.
These resources may include time management, study skills, test-taking strategies, finding tutors, or other resources related to academic issues.
If I believe that you could benefit from speaking with a success coach about these issues, I will use the EAS to reach out to you.

## Miscellaneous
